(upbeat music)
Let's talk about what I call
these callback methods and I just made that up.
But why I'm grouping these all into their own section
that I call callback methods is
because before we even hit looping,
a lot of these methods take a function as an argument
and it's often called a callback.
So, let's dig into how these all work.
The one that we've used so far is find
and we're gonna really dig into how these work
with find right now.
So, find the first rating that talks about a burger.
Okay, so, we've got this data up here
and we've got feedback, there we go.
And, we wanna find the first one
that has either the word burg or burger in it,
so we're gonna go down here.
And, we'll say const rating, we'll call it burgRating,
is equal to ratings dot find.
Now, the argument to find,
let's go find find.
There we go.
Open it up, find returns the value
of the first element provided the array
that satisfies the provided testing function.
And, if we go down here, you see that one paramater
that it takes is a callback.
I guess it also takes a secondary argument called a thisArg.
We'll go into what this means in future videos.
Quite honestly, I've never used that one myself.
So, the callback and then you've got this nested one.
Element and index and array optional.
So, what does this all mean?
Well, it means that the argument of find is going
to be a function that either returns true or false
when it has found the item that it wants.
And, we've been doing it a little bit something like this.
And, we'll call it rating.
Then, we do an arrow and we say rating dot includes.
Or, no, it's not just rating.
It's the rating dot comment dot includes.
We say rating dot comment dot includes burg.
And then, we'll console log burgRating.
So, let's see how this works.
And then, we'll sorta peel it back here.
ReferenceError ratings is not defined.
What is it called, what did I call it?
Feedback, okay.
Ratings, it's not ratings, it's feedback.
There we go, there's our comment, love the burg.
Rating of four.
Okay, so, what is this?
Well, this is a function, let's see, right here.
And, we're going to name that function called findBurgRating
and that function will receive three arguments
and we can tell what those arguments are.
First, the element and the element is just a nice way
of saying each individual item.
So, rather than calling it element
'cause what does that mean to me?
I'm gonna call it what it is.
What is each individual thing in the array?
Well, I'm gonna call it a rating,
or a feedback because rating is actually a property.
Then, the second one is the index.
Often, we'll just short form that to i.
That is gonna be zero, one, two, three.
So, if you ever need to know what index something is
when you're in the loop, you have access to it.
And then, the third argument is the array,
which is if you ever need to reference the entire array
while you are inside of it, then you can use that as well.
So, usually, I don't have to pass both of these,
but if you even do need access to where it is in the array
as well as the original array,
you might be asking,
why can't I just reference it by the feedback array?
And, that's because this function could be reused
on multiple arrays and in order at making this a function
that can be reused on many arrays,
we can pass in what that one is.
So, we're not gonna pass those in just right now.
Right now, we only care about the feedback
and let's just console log feedback.
Now, what we can do is instead of doing
this inline function right here,
we can just simply pass the function findBurgRating.
And, you notice I don't put parentheses on the end
because I'm not calling it.
I'm actually just passing it referenced to the function
and JavaScript itself is going to run this function once
for each of the feedbacks in our feedback array.
Oh, that's not a good name because the plural,
so we'll call it singleFeedback.
And, you see here, now when I run this,
every single comment is commented out,
is console logged in our console.
Now, what I could do here is I could just say return true
and what will happen is
it will only ever console log the first one,
it's the on line 136, and then it stops
because as soon as you return true
from this find callback function,
it thinks that you have found the thing you're looking for
and it's going to then return the item in the array.
So, what we can do in here is we can say
if singleFeedback dot comment dot includes burg,
return true.
Else, return false.
Now, we see it will loop over and find the exact one
that includes burg.
Okay, so, that makes sense.
We can do this a little bit smaller though.
So, because this condition, remember,
a condition is something that tests
if something is true or false
and includes is a method
that will only ever return true or false,
so because that returns true or false,
we don't have to actually
have this if-statement and return true or false ourself.
We can actually just get rid of it all
and simply return whether it includes that value or not.
So, return singleFeedback dot comment dot includes a burg
and it works exactly the same way.
So, that is simply one way to do it.
You will often see me doing it just inline here
because I'm running it,
but anytime you find yourself writing the same code
more than once, you're like, huh,
this seems like a lot of the same code I've written
more than once, then you can refactor it out
into its own function.
Now, this function, again, just like everything else
can be any type of function.
So, it can be that type of a function
or it could be a const findBurgRating
is equal to a function.
So, that's another way to go ahead.
I'll comment that out.
That works exactly the same.
We can make it an arrow function.
So, we could say const findBurgRating
is equal to an arrow function.
FindBurgRating, oh, I gotta comment out the old one
'cause it can't duplicate the name of that function.
There we go, that works.
And then, we can even go one step further
and make this an implicit return.
This is a explicit return,
so I'll just take out the curly brackets
and let me make this a little bit wider so I can show you.
This is just a one-liner that we have right here.
So, that's another way to do it.
This is Wes from the future.
I forgot to tell you one more pretty common way
that I do it, so I'm just cutting in here
just to show you that last one
and that is grouping all of these burger-finding functions
into an object.
So, pretty often, what I'll do is
I'll create an object called util.
And then, inside of that util, I'll put all
of my little helper functions, utility functions
for finding things that I'm looking for.
And, all you need to do is I'll just
take this one right here.
Paste it in.
Get rid of these comments.
And then, you can use it as, what did we call this?
FindBurgRating.
Yeah, let's say it's a findBurgRating
is equal to a function.
So, what this is is we put the function inside of an object,
that makes it a method.
And then, that's beautiful because then what we can do is
when we are looking for something,
we simply just pass util dot findBurgRating.
So, that is one more way to do it.
And then, there's actually even one more way,
which is putting them in modules
and importing and exporting them,
but we will look at that once we hit modules.
Back to regular scheduled programming.
So, one other concept that,
we've kinda covered this already,
but remember when we talked about functions
that return other functions?
We referred to those as high-order functions.
Now, I'm gonna show you how that works.
Now, this function here is very tied to the word burg
and if I wanted to make another function
that looked for another word, like let's take a look at,
let's look for smoothie.
Then, I would have to duplicate this
and make a findSmoothieRating.
And then, just change this out with Smoothie.
Let's try this.
There we go, Smoothies are great.
So, that seems a little bit weird.
Do I have to create a new function for every single word?
No, what we can do is we can create a function
that will create these functions for us.
So, what that looks like is, we'll comment this out,
we'll make a function called findByWord
and we'll pass in the word.
And then, in that, we're going to return another function
that then takes in the singleFeedback.
And, we can just say in here,
return singleFeedback dot comment dot includes.
And, now, we don't have to hard code burg or Smoothie.
We can just pass it the word that got passed in.
So, this is a function
that makes another function.
It's sort of a momma function that returns another function
and we've sort of made this function machine
that will just turn out more functions.
And then, what we can do here is we can go back here
and now we can say findByWord
and pass it burg.
Let me make it a little bit simpler.
And, we'll say const burgFinder is equal to findByWord burg.
Now, burgFinder is just going to be a function
that is set up for finding the word burg
and we can pass it here.
And, I could do this, similarly, I could do this as well.
Make it a smoothieFinder,
got lowercase s.
We'll look for a Smoothie.
And then, we'll give ourselves our smoothieFinder in there.
So, we've just made a function that makes a function
and you see how flexible that is
that we can just pass it the word we're looking for
and then it will find the specific word that we want?
Then, we don't even need these variables right here.
These are just temporary variables
because we create it and then we pass it in here.
We can just pass this directly in there.
And, we can pass this directly in there.
Now, you might be saying, hold on, Wes.
I thought you said you shouldn't call the function
when you pass it to find.
I thought you were supposed
to just pass it referenced to the function.
And, the key here is that the findByWord burg
doesn't find the burger itself.
It just returns a function, which then, in turn,
will find the burg for you.
Let me show you here.
BurgRating has already been declared.
What did I do?
Line 153.
Oh, yeah, because this should be called smoothieRating.
All right, let me just clear this out.
See, if I run findByWord burg,
what it does is it returns to me another function
that is then set up for hard coded
with the word burg inside of it
and that's why we can pass it in there.
So, that's a little bit of an advanced one,
but if you do find yourself
in a situation where you're like, ah, I seem
to be writing the same code over and over again,
just this one thing is changing,
then maybe come back to this video and take a look
at how we made a function that returns another function.
All right, so that's the first one.
All that work to find a burg rating, good.
Now, we wanna find all the ratings
that are above two with filter.
So, filter works very much the same as find,
but it will return to you a new array
instead of just one item.
So, we can say const goodReviews
is equal to feedback dot filter.
And, again, the filter method
will loop over every single one
and it will either return true, I wanna keep it,
or false, I don't wanna keep it.
So, in this case, we can get each individual,
so we'll call it a singleFeedback.
And then, I'll say if the singleFeedback dot rating
is greater or equal to two, return true.
Else, return false.
Then, we go here and we'll console log our goodReviews.
Actually, let's use console dot table.
Get ready for this, boom.
You get a table in here.
It'll show you the index
and any of the properties that are on that.
So, here we go, we've got all of our ratings
that are equal to or above two.
Maybe we'll take that.
Equals out and then it just gives us three comments.
Good, now how can we make this better?
The same thing, we've done this a few times.
You probably can tell what we're gonna do.
This is a condition, meaning a condition is something
that will evaluate to true or false,
so we can simply just return it instead.
And then, we can also just put it on a single line
and get rid of the return keyword
and get rid of the curly brackets as an implicit return.
So, that's perfectly fine in there.
Could we do another one of these, findByWord?
Absolutely, so we could say a function findByValue.
Or, no, not find, filterByValue.
And, we'll take in the value.
Or, maybe we'll call that filterByMinRating.
These functions that are like filter and find,
it's really helpful to name them extremely explicit
because, often, you will have them
in another file or something like that
and you wanna be able to know what they do
without having to go back and look.
FilterByMinRating will take in a minRating.
And then, we will return another function.
You don't have to name this function in here.
You could, so we could call it filterByMinRatingPassedIn,
but you don't need to, it's not necessary.
And then, from that, we will take in the singleFeedback.
And, we will return singleFeedback dot rating is greater
than the minRating that's passed in.
Now, we made a little function that returns a function.
We can go into this filter
and just generate that function now.
So, filterByMinRating of two.
And, you see that we've got it.
If I then change that to four,
you see it's just changed to five.
That's a pretty handy, nice and flexible way to go about it.
Next up, we've gotta find all the ratings
that talk about a burger with filter.
Okay, let's do it.
So, we'll say const burgRatings is equal
to feedback dot filter.
Each one, we'll call it a singleFeedback.
And, will simply return true
if the singleFeedback dot comment dot includes burg.
We've pretty much already done that,
but, in our case, we are simply just filtering for it.
Now, if we console table,
timeEnd, table,
burgRatings.
Love the burgs, Smoothies are great.
Now, you might be saying hold on, Wes.
Didn't you already do that?
Oh, you did, so what we can do is we can actually
just reuse this function here.
Let's do it.
We'll just filter for findByWord burg.
And, look, boom, same results.
Now, we've just created some beautiful JavaScript
where this nice little findByWord function
can be used in find
or it can be used in filter
because they both do the same thing
and they're checking if it includes a word.
See the beauty of this?
And, it's fine if you don't do this all the time.
I honestly don't do it all the time
because a little arrow function is good.
But it's good to know about it because eventually
you will get to a point where you do
find yourself repeating yourself over and over,
much like I'm repeating this over and over in this video.
Next one, remove the one start rating however you like.
Okay, so let's look at the one star rating.
This one, I do not like burgers.
So, you could filter comments that are done in all caps.
You could filter ratings that are equal to one.
I think we'll do that, ratings that are equal to one.
So, let's go down.
We'll say const legitRatings is equal
to feedback dot filter.
Grab our singleFeedback.
And, let's call it something else
just so I can show you it's called anything.
We'll call it a single.
And, we'll say if the single dot rating is equal to one.
And, that should give us the bad, actually, one.
There we go.
So, we want the opposite.
How do you get the opposite of that?
Well, you can simply just put a bang in front of it.
So, if the single rating does not,
oh, actually, no, not there.
Well, just here, if it does not equal one.
And, there, we get everything else that we want.
So, you see how that,
I'm not gonna make a function for that.
That's just a one-liner.
That's the beauty of these type of things.
I can just do it in a one-liner, so why not?
Next, check if there are at least five
of one type of meat with some.
So, what does some do?
Let's take a look.
Here we go.
The some method tests whether at least one
of the element in the array passes the test provided
by it and it returns a Boolean.
Okay, so const isThereEnoughOfAtLeastOneMeat.
And, we'll say meats dot, no, okay.
Meats is what?
What is meats?
It's an object.
So, how would we check it?
All the stuff we're learning about is arrays.
How do you convert an object into an array
so you can use these methods on it?
Well, object dot entries dot keys, or dot values.
In our case, we want dot values.
So, okay, we'll go meats dot,
so we'll turn that into object dot values meats
dot some
and then we'll just call it a meatValue.
And, will return true or false,
whether the meatValue is greater or equal to five.
So, we'll say meatValue is greater or equal to five.
So, what we do here is we loop over every single one
of the things that is returned.
So, if you're asking, what is that?
That's 10, five, and seven.
So, we're going to check if at least one
of the values is greater or equal to five.
And then, we can console log is there at least one meat?
True.
Next one, make sure we have at least three
of every meat, with every.
So, some will just check for one.
So, another example I've done in one
of my courses is if you have five people in a family
and you wanna make sure there's at least one adult
who is greater than 19 years old,
what you could do is you could loop over all of the people
in the family and check for their ages and say dot sum.
Dot sum means at least one of,
one person that is greater than 19.
And, every means make sure every single thing
in that array meets our criteria.
So, let's just duplicate this.
Rename the variable to isThereEnoughOfEveryMeat.
And then, we'll say every meatValue is greater
or equal to three.
We'll console dot log isThereEnoughOfEveryMeat?
True, is that true?
Yes it is 'cause I wrote the code.
And, we'll see, yeah, 10, five, and seven, good.
Sort the toppings alphabetically with sort.
Oh, so this is a different kind of callback function here.
So, if I have an array of numbers,
so one, two, 100,
and we call dot sort on it,
we get
one, 100, two, what?
What is going on here, what?
200, okay.
So, 155.
Hmm.
What's going on here?
So, sort, let's look up the docs for it.
Sort method sorts elements of an array in place
and returns the sorted array.
The default sort order is built upon converting the elements
into strings and then comparing their sequences
in a UTF-16 code unit value.
So, that's a fancy way of saying
it does it alphabetically as strings.
So, if you have one as a string
and then you have 100 as a string,
it just takes the one and goes, oh,
you get the point, right?
It's not using them as numbers.
It's using them as strings.
So, if you want to sort numbers, let's do a little example
before we get into our exercise here.
So, we'll say const numbers is equal
to one, two, 100,
three, 200, 400, 155.
And, console log.
We'll make a new variable.
NumbersSorted
is equal to numbers dot sort.
Let's just call it like that
and see the disappointment that comes with that.
There we go, one, 100, 155, two,
you get the point, right?
That's not what we want.
So, the way that sort works is
that it takes a callback function, right here,
a compare callback function,
and it gives you the first and the second thing.
So, basically, you're going to loop over it
and it's going to give you the first thing
and the second thing and it's up to us
to decide whether that thing should go in front of it
or behind it or stay in place.
So, what do you return?
Well, if you return less than zero, it will go before it.
If you return zero, it will be unchanged.
And, if you return greater than zero,
it will go ahead of it.
So, we need a little callback function.
I'll do a regular function here.
And, we'll call it it firstThing, maybe not thing.
FirstItem and secondItem.
And, we can go ahead and console log firstItem
and secondItem just to show you
how it's sorting through these things.
And, you see, we're gonna get two and one,
so it might be a little bit confusing
that we call it firstItem and secondItem
and we're seeing second and first,
but that's how it works.
And, essentially, what happens is
every function gets two things.
One in the left hand and one in the right hand.
And, it's up to you as the developer
to tell JavaScript whether you should switch places
with those two things.
And, as JavaScript loops over those things,
you keep switching them and, eventually,
it will run through it enough times
that there will be no more switches
and that's how it knows it's done.
So, what we can do is we
can return zero, negative one, or positive one.
Or, you can return any value, up or down,
and that's what we're gonna do here.
So, we'll say
if the firstItem
is greater than the secondItem, return one.
Else if, the secondItem
is greater than the firstItem,
then we will return negative one.
And then, finally, else, they are exactly the same,
we will return zero.
Let's see how that works.
So, now we have one, two, three, four, all the way up.
Good, but that's pretty verbose and you don't have
to just return one, minus one, and zero.
You can return any zero,
negative number, or positive number.
And, since these are already numbers,
we can simply get away with just return the secondItem
minus the firstItem.
And, we'll get rid of all that.
Oh, I did that backwards, it's the firstItem.
I always do it backwards.
So, how do you know?
Just do it one way
and if your array is backwards, switch them.
There we go, one all the way up to 400.
So, it's gonna return one minus two, that's negative one.
That will move it to the beginning of the array
where it already is.
Then, we get 100 minus two.
And then, those numbers will
just help it learn how to sort itself.
And then, the numbers are beautifully sorted.
So, by default, it will sort itself based on strings,
so if you did have a string, like a, z,
zed for my Canadians out there,
e, r, and b.
If you just call sort on it,
it'll automatically do that for you.
But when you are dealing with numbers
or you are dealing with nested elements,
then you have to use a callback function here.
Similarly, we can convert this
to an arrow function if we like.
So, we'll take that off.
Put an arrow here.
Get rid of the curly brackets.
Get rid of that semicolon.
And, we'll put it all on one line.
Does it still work?
No, oh, I forgot to remove the return.
Beautiful, so what was even our question here?
Sort all the order totals from most expensive, oh, no.
Sort all the toppings alphabetically with sort.
Oh, that's easy.
So, we'll just console log toppings dot sort.
Done, that was a easy one.
Next one, sort the order totals
from most expensive to least expensive with dot sort.
So, let's look at our order totals, they're just numbers.
Okay, so, we can do the same thing we did before
or we can make a function called numberSort
that takes in a and b
and returns a minus b.
Then, we console log the orderTotals dot sort
and you pass it your nice little numberSort function.
And, it goes three, all the way up to 2222, beautiful.
Sort the prices with sort.
So, oh, this is getting a little bit harder.
Where are the prices?
Here we go.
This is an object.
So, how would I sort the prices?
Well, probably object dot entries.
But we somehow need to keep the thing
that we're sorting along with it.
So, how would we do that?
Well, let's do it step by step.
So, const
productsSortedByPrice is equal to.
We will use our object dot entries,
object dot entries.
We'll pass it the prices.
What does that do?
Well, let's take a look here.
Clear everything out and if I paste that in here,
that gives us an array
where each item is an array
and then the first item is a hotdog.
Second item is the actual price.
Okay, so that's good.
Then, what we can do is we can sort over each of them.
Let's use a regular function here
and that will give us the first and the second.
I often will do A and B.
I'm not a big fan of doing short variables,
like foo, bar, baz, A, B, X, Y.
But in this case, I'm fine with it. (laughs)
So, you can name it whatever you want.
I think a and b is totally fine.
And, let's just throw a debugger in there right now
to see what we are working with.
So, when I refresh now, you'll see
that this debugger pops up
and the important part is this local scope,
meaning that what are these variables equal to?
Well, it tells us that a is equal to burger
and b is equal to hotdog.
And, it says they're both arrays,
so the first thing in the array the name of it
and the second thing is the price.
So, what we could do there is
we could make quick little variables.
So, const
aPrice is equal to a square bracket one.
And,
bPrice is equal to square bracket two.
Now, watch, when we refresh that,
we see that we have access to our two arguments,
but also the variables that we have just made.
Oh, what did I do?
This is one, sorry, not two.
There we go.
BPrice, oh, and this is b.
Ah, man, can't code.
There we go, 765 and 453.
So, now that we have those two values,
we can simply just return the bPrice
minus the aPrice.
Or, maybe the other way around?
Get rid of this debugger.
And, console dot table productsSortedByPrice.
And, they are descending,
so if you wanted it the other way around,
you could do that.
And, now they go from cheapest to most expensive.
Now, if I wanted to turn that back into an object,
I could simply just wrap it in an object dot fromEntries.
And, what that will do is it takes nested arrays,
like we have here, and turns it back into a regular object.
Open it up, you see our actual values.
I had told you earlier,
when we were learning about objects,
that they are not order-sensitive,
but I've since found out that they added it
to the language where they are maintained
in the order at which you put them in,
except if they have numbers, in they start with a number.
That's why we did 777, it went to the top.
So, those always go first
and then the other ones come after it.
Beautiful.
And, that is the end of our sorting video.
I know that was a really big one,
but, quite honestly, this is most of what I do with my days,
is writing filter, find, object dot values.
I'm doing lots of this data massaging
'cause you're often just getting a whole dump of stuff
from a database and it's not exactly the data
that you want before you go and put it on the page.
And, this, as well as map, filter, reduce,
which is the next video, is a lot of my time spent.